Jhipster k8s eks terraform post (#1189)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-06-15-terraform-eks-microservices.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Deploy Java Microservices on Amazon EKS Using Terraform and Kubernetes"
author: deepu-sasidharan
by: advocate
communities: [devops, kubernetes, java]
description: "Deploy a cloud-native Java microservice stack on Amazon EKS using Terraform and Kubernetes."
tags: [kubernetes, jhipster, spring-boot, spring, java, aws, eks, react, terraform]
tweets:
  - "Deploy a #Java microservice stack on Amazon EKS using #Terraform and #Kubernetes"
  - "Deploy a cloud-native #Java microservice stack to Amazon EKS with #Terraform and #Kubernetes"
image: blog/jhipster-k8s-eks-terraform/cover.jpg

> github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example

Reviewer: It'd be good to have Links, Help, and License at the bottom of this README. For an example, see https://github.com/oktadev/okta-spring-boot-react-crud-example#links.

This doesn't mean that deploying and managing microservices on the public cloud is easy; they come with their own challenges and pain. This is especially true for Amazon EKS, which in my opinion, is the hardest to use Kubernetes service but also one of the most flexible. This is because EKS is nothing but some clever orchestrations doing a complex dance on top of other AWS services like EC2, EBS, etc.

If you want to run a microservice stack on EKS, you would need to spend some extra time and effort setting it up and managing it. This is where infrastructure as code (IaC) tools like [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) comes in handy.

> So here is what you will do today:

Reviewer: This might read better as "Here is what you will learn how to do today:"

- Set up OIDC authentication for the microservice stack using Okta
- Build and deploy the microservice stack to the cluster

**Prerequisites**

- [AWS account](https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup) with the [IAM permissions to create EKS clusters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/security_iam_id-based-policy-examples.html)
- AWS CLI [installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html) and [configured](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html)
- [AWS IAM Authenticator](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/install-aws-iam-authenticator.html) installed on your machine
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) installed on your machine
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed and configured on your machine
- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads) installed on your machine
- [Java 11+](https://sdkman.io/usage) installed on your machine
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/) installed on your machine
- [Optional] [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/) installed on your machine

> - [Optional] [KDash](https://github.com/kdash-rs/kdash)

Reviewer: There are quite a few "installed on your machine" instances here. DRY might be appropriate here.

{% include toc.md %}

## Why Terraform, why not CloudFormation?

> At this point, the first question that might pop up in your mind would be, "Why not use [CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/)?". It's a good question; after all, CloudFormation is built by AWS and hence sounds like an excellent solution to manage AWS resources. But anyone who has tried both CloudFormation and Terraform would tell you to forget that CloudFormation even exists. I think CloudFormation is far more complex to use and less developer-friendly than Terraform. You also need to write a lot more boilerplate with CloudFormation in YAML or JSON. Yikes! And most importantly, Terraform is far more powerful and flexible than CloudFormation and is cross-platform, which means you can take care of all your infrastructure management needs on any platform with one tool.

Reviewer: I don't know what CloudFormation is, and I was going to ask you to define it for readers here, but I think you've done a good job explaining why you don't really need to know what it is. 👍

## Scaffold a Java microservice stack using JHipster

> You need a microservice stack to deploy to the cluster. I'm using a microservice stack scaffolded for demo purposes using [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech). You can use another microservice stack if you want. If you prefer using the same application as in this demo, then you can either scaffold it using JHipster [JDL](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/intro) or clone the sample repository from [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need a microservice stack to deploy to the cluster. I'm using a microservice stack scaffolded for demo purposes using [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech). You can use another microservice stack if you want. If you prefer using the same application as in this demo, then you can either scaffold it using JHipster [JDL](https://www.jhipster.tech/jdl/intro) or clone the sample repository from [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example).
```

I'd add a `git clone` command here so it's easy to copy pasta.

Author: its given below the para

**Scaffold the microservice stack using JHipster**

```bash
mkdir jhipster-microservice-stack
cd jhipster-microservice-stack
# download the JDL file

> jhipster download https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example/main/apps.jdl

Reviewer: I didn't even know JHipster had a `download` command! I'd suggest `wget` here because it's faster, but it's kinda cool to see JHipster can do it too.

Author: jhipster download can download from the JDL samples repo without full URL. for example `jhipster download blog-oauth2` will fetch [blog-oauth2.jdl](https://github.com/jhipster/jdl-samples/blob/main/blog-oauth2.jdl) so from a JHipster context it does more than wget, but it can also download absolute urls

# scaffold
jhipster jdl apps.jdl
```

**Clone the sample repository**

```
git clone https://github.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example
```

The JHipster scaffolded sample application has a gateway application, two microservices, and uses [JHipster Registry](https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/) for service discovery and centralized configuration.

## Create an EKS cluster using Terraform

> Now let us move on to the important part of the tutorial. Creating an EKS cluster in AWS is not as straightforward as in GCP. You need to also create a lot more resources for everything to work correctly without surprises. You will be using a bunch of Terraform providers to help us with this, and you will also use some prebuilt terraform modules like [AWS VPC Terraform module](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-vpc) and [Amazon EKS Blueprints for Terraform](https://github.com/aws-ia/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints) to reduce the amount of boilerplate you need to write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let us move on to the important part of the tutorial. Creating an EKS cluster in AWS is not as straightforward as in GCP. You need to also create a lot more resources for everything to work correctly without surprises. You will be using a bunch of Terraform providers to help us with this, and you will also use some prebuilt Terraform modules like [AWS VPC Terraform module](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-vpc) and [Amazon EKS Blueprints for Terraform](https://github.com/aws-ia/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints) to reduce the amount of boilerplate you need to write.
```

You might want to define GCP here since it's not mentioned earlier.

### Build the Terraform configuration

> First, you need to make sure you use a specific version of the providers as different versions might use different attributes and features. Create a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to make sure you use a specific version of the providers as different versions might use different attributes and features. Create a `versions.tf` file:
```

```bash
mkdir terraform
cd terraform
touch versions.tf
```

Add the following to the file:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_version = ">= 1.0.0"

  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = ">= 3.72"
    }
    kubernetes = {
      source  = "hashicorp/kubernetes"
      version = ">= 2.10"
    }
    helm = {
      source  = "hashicorp/helm"
      version = ">= 2.4.1"
    }
    random = {
      source  = "hashicorp/random"
      version = ">= 3.2.0"
    }
    nullres = {
      source  = "hashicorp/null"
      version = ">= 3.1"
    }
  }
}
```

> Next, you need to define variables and configure the providers. Create a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you need to define variables and configure the providers. Create a `config.tf` file:
```

```bash
touch config.tf
```

Add the following to the file:

```hcl
# ##  To save state in s3. Update to suit your needs
# backend "s3" {
#   bucket = "create-an-s3-bucket-and-provide-name-here"
#   region = local.region
#   key    = "e2e/eks-cluster-with-new-vpc/terraform.tfstate"
# }

variable "region" {
  default     = "eu-west-1"
  description = "AWS region"
}

resource "random_string" "suffix" {
  length  = 8
  special = false
}

data "aws_availability_zones" "available" {}

locals {
  name            = "okta-jhipster-eks-${random_string.suffix.result}"
  region          = var.region
  cluster_version = "1.22"
  instance_types  = ["t2.large"] # can be multiple, comma separated

  vpc_cidr = "10.0.0.0/16"
  azs      = slice(data.aws_availability_zones.available.names, 0, 3)

  tags = {
    Blueprint  = local.name
    GitHubRepo = "github.com/aws-ia/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints"
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = local.region
}

# Kubernetes provider

> # You should **not** schedule deployments and services in this workspace. This keeps workspaces modular (one for provision EKS, another for scheduling Kubernetes resources) as per best practices.

Reviewer: You might want to put this on two lines since you have to scroll right to read it all when it's rendered.

provider "kubernetes" {
  host                   = module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_endpoint
  cluster_ca_certificate = base64decode(module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_certificate_authority_data)

  exec {

>     api_version = "client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1"

Reviewer: Is there a non-alpha version or is this the latest?

Author: there is a beta version but I don't think it really matters for this usage much

    command     = "aws"
    # This requires the awscli to be installed locally where Terraform is executed
    args = ["eks", "get-token", "--cluster-name", module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_id]
  }
}

provider "helm" {
  kubernetes {
    host                   = module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_endpoint
    cluster_ca_certificate = base64decode(module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_certificate_authority_data)

    exec {
      api_version = "client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1"
      command     = "aws"
      # This requires the awscli to be installed locally where Terraform is executed
      args = ["eks", "get-token", "--cluster-name", module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_id]
    }
  }
}
```

> You can uncomment the `backend` section above to save state in S3 instead of your local filesystem. This is recommended for production setup so that everyone in a team has the same state. This file defines configurable and local variables used across the workspace and configures some of the providers used. The Kubernetes provider is included in this file so the EKS module can complete successfully. Otherwise, it throws an error when creating `kubernetes_config_map.aws_auth`. The helm provider is used to install Kubernetes add-ons to the cluster.

Reviewer: If you have the error and you ran into it, it might be helpful to include it here. Then developers will be able to google for it and find the solution in this post.

Author: not really I had this defined from the beginning, and afaik is a common practice to define this

> ### Build the VPC

Reviewer: What's a VPC?

Author: Virtual private cloud. Defined in the first usage at the start of the post

> Next up, you need a VPC, subnets, route tables, and other networking bits. You will use the `vpc` module from the [`terraform-aws-modules`](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules) repository. This module is a wrapper around the AWS VPC module. It makes it easier to configure VPCs and all the other required networking resources. Create a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next up, you need a VPC, subnets, route tables, and other networking bits. You will use the `vpc` module from the [`terraform-aws-modules`](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules) repository. This module is a wrapper around the AWS VPC module. It makes it easier to configure VPCs and all the other required networking resources. Create a `vpc.tf` file:
```

```bash
touch vpc.tf
```

Add the following to the file:

```hcl

> 

Reviewer: Remove blank line.

# VPC, Subnets, Internet gateway, Route tables, etc.
#---------------------------------------------------------------
module "vpc" {
  source  = "terraform-aws-modules/vpc/aws"
  version = "~> 3.0"

  name = local.name
  cidr = local.vpc_cidr

  azs             = local.azs
  public_subnets  = [for k, v in local.azs : cidrsubnet(local.vpc_cidr, 8, k)]
  private_subnets = [for k, v in local.azs : cidrsubnet(local.vpc_cidr, 8, k + 10)]

  enable_nat_gateway   = true
  single_nat_gateway   = true
  enable_dns_hostnames = true

  # Manage so we can name
  manage_default_network_acl    = true
  default_network_acl_tags      = { Name = "${local.name}-default" }
  manage_default_route_table    = true
  default_route_table_tags      = { Name = "${local.name}-default" }
  manage_default_security_group = true
  default_security_group_tags   = { Name = "${local.name}-default" }

  public_subnet_tags = {
    "kubernetes.io/cluster/${local.name}" = "shared"
    "kubernetes.io/role/elb"              = 1
  }

  private_subnet_tags = {
    "kubernetes.io/cluster/${local.name}" = "shared"
    "kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb"     = 1
  }

  tags = local.tags
}
```

This will create;

> - A new VPC, 3 Private Subnets, and 3 Public Subnets,

Reviewer: We typically spell out numbers less than 10. Not sure if that's recommended here or not.

- Internet gateway for public subnets and NAT Gateway for private subnets,
- AWS routes for the gateways, public/private route tables, and route table associations.

### Build the EKS Cluster

> Now that you have the networking part done, you can build configurations for the EKS cluster and its add-ons. You will use the `eks_blueprints` module from [`terraform-aws-eks-blueprints`](https://aws-ia.github.io/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints/v4.0.9/), which is a wrapper around the [`terraform-aws-modules`](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules) and provides additional modules to configure EKS add-ons. Create a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have the networking part done, you can build configurations for the EKS cluster and its add-ons. You will use the `eks_blueprints` module from [`terraform-aws-eks-blueprints`](https://aws-ia.github.io/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints/v4.0.9/), which is a wrapper around the [`terraform-aws-modules`](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules) and provides additional modules to configure EKS add-ons. 

Create a `eks-cluster.tf` file:
```

Break the paragraph up a bit. Feel free to ignore.

      subnet_ids      = module.vpc.private_subnets
    }
  }

  tags = local.tags
}

module "eks_blueprints_kubernetes_addons" {
  source = "github.com/aws-ia/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints//modules/kubernetes-addons?ref=v4.0.9"

  eks_cluster_id       = module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_id
  eks_cluster_endpoint = module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_endpoint
  eks_oidc_provider    = module.eks_blueprints.oidc_provider
  eks_cluster_version  = module.eks_blueprints.eks_cluster_version

  # EKS Managed Add-ons
  enable_amazon_eks_vpc_cni    = true
  enable_amazon_eks_coredns    = true
  enable_amazon_eks_kube_proxy = true

  # K8S Add-ons
  enable_aws_load_balancer_controller = true
  enable_metrics_server               = true
  enable_cluster_autoscaler           = true
  enable_aws_cloudwatch_metrics       = false

  tags = local.tags

}

# To update local kubeconfig with new cluster details
resource "null_resource" "kubeconfig" {
  depends_on = [module.eks_blueprints_kubernetes_addons]
  provisioner "local-exec" {
    command = "aws eks --region ${local.region}  update-kubeconfig --name $AWS_CLUSTER_NAME"
    environment = {
      AWS_CLUSTER_NAME = local.name
    }
  }
}
```

> The `eks_blueprints` module definition creates;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `eks_blueprints` module definition creates:
```

- EKS Cluster Control plane with one managed node group and fargate profile,
- Cluster and node security groups and rules, IAM roles and policies required,

> - AWS Key Management Service (KMS) configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- and AWS Key Management Service (KMS) configuration.
```

Since you seem to be splitting a sentence across bullet points.

Author: Thanks. English grammar isn't one of my skills :wink:

> The `eks_blueprints_kubernetes_addons` module definition creates;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `eks_blueprints_kubernetes_addons` module definition creates:
```

- Amazon EKS add-ons vpc-cni, CoreDNS, and kube-proxy,
- AWS Load Balancer Controller for distributing traffic,

> - [Metrics Server](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server), and Cluster Autoscaler for scaling your workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- and [Metrics Server](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server), and Cluster Autoscaler for scaling your workloads.
```

Same as above.

The `null_resource` configuration updates your local kubeconfig with the new cluster details. It's not a required step for provisioning but just a handy hack.

> Finally, you can also define some outputs to be captured. Create a file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can also define some outputs to be captured. Create a `outputs.tf` file:
```

Part of the reason I like the filename is that otherwise there's a lot of "Create a file, add the following to the file" and it seems repititous.

  description = "EKS managed node group role name"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.managed_node_group_iam_role_names
}

output "eks_managed_nodegroup_status" {
  description = "EKS managed node group status"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.managed_node_groups_status
}

output "configure_kubectl" {
  description = "Configure kubectl: make sure you're logged in with the correct AWS profile and run the following command to update your kubeconfig"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.configure_kubectl
}
```

### Provision the cluster

Our Terraform definitions are ready. Now you can provision the cluster. First, initialize Terraform workspace and plan the changes:

```bash
# download modules and providers. Initialize state.
terraform init
# see a preview of what will be done
terraform plan
```

Review the plan and make sure everything is correct. Ensure you have configured your AWS CLI and IAM Authenticator to use the correct AWS account. If not, run and following:

```bash
# Visit https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/security_credentials for creating access keys
aws configure
```

Now you can apply the changes:

```bash
terraform apply
```

> Confirm by typing `yes` when prompted. This will take a while (15-20 minutes), so sit back and have a coffee or contemplate what led you to this point in life 😉.

Reviewer: I would recommend putting the emoji after the period. Feel free to ignore. 😉

> Once the EKS cluster is ready, you will see the output variables printed on the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the EKS cluster is ready, you will see the output variables printed to the console.
```

        "okta-tf-demo:managed-ondemand-20220610125341399700000010",
      ]
      "managed_nodegroup_launch_template_arn" = []
      "managed_nodegroup_launch_template_id" = []
      "managed_nodegroup_launch_template_latest_version" = []
      "managed_nodegroup_status" = [
        "ACTIVE",
      ]
    }
  },
])
region = "eu-west-1"
vpc_cidr = "10.0.0.0/16"
vpc_private_subnet_cidr = [
  "10.0.10.0/24",
  "10.0.11.0/24",
  "10.0.12.0/24",
]
vpc_public_subnet_cidr = [
  "10.0.0.0/24",
  "10.0.1.0/24",
  "10.0.2.0/24",
]
```

You should see the cluster details if you run `kdash` or `kubectl get nodes` commands.

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-eks-terraform/eks_cluster.png alt:"EKS cluster in KDash" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

## Set up OIDC authentication using Okta

You can proceed to deploy the sample application. You could skip this step if you used a sample that does not use Okta or OIDC for authentication.

First, navigate to the **store** application folder.

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}

> **Note**: Make sure to add the newly created `.okta.env` file to your `.gitignore` file so that you don't accidentally expose your credentials to the public.

> Update `kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml` with the OIDC configuration from the `.okta.env` file. The Spring Cloud Config server reads from this file and shares the values with the gateway and the microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update `kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml` with the OIDC configuration from the `.okta.env` file. The Spring Cloud Config server reads from this file and shares the values with the gateway and microservices.
```

```yaml
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>
                client-secret: <client-secret>
```

> Next, configure the JHipster Registry to use OIDC for authentication, modify `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` to enable the `oauth2` profile, which is pre-configured in the JHipster Registry application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, configure the JHipster Registry to use OIDC for authentication. Modify `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` to enable the `oauth2` profile, which is pre-configured in the JHipster Registry application.
```

## Deploy the microservice stack

You are ready to deploy to our shiny new EKS cluster, but first, you need to build and push the Docker images to a container registry. You can use [Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) or any other container registry.

### Build the Docker images

You need to build Docker images for each app. This is specific to the JHipster application used in this tutorial. Navigate to each app folder (**store**, **invoice**, **product**) and run the following command:

```bash
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=<docker-repo-uri-or-name>/<image-name>
```

> Image names would be `store`, `invoice`, and `product`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image names should be `store`, `invoice`, and `product`.
```

### Deploy the applications to EKS

You can start the deployment using the handy script provided by JHipster. You could also manually apply deployments using `kubectl apply -f <file>` commands.

```bash
cd kubernetes
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

> {% img blog/jhipster-k8s-eks-terraform/jhi_pods.png alt:"EKS cluster in KDash" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: I usually use dashes in image names, but it probably doesn't matter.

You can also run the following command to see the status of the deployments:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n jhipster
```

> You can view the registry using port-forwarding as follows, and you will be able to access the application at `http://localhost:8761`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view the registry using port-forwarding as follows, and you will be able to access the application at `http://localhost:8761`.
```

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n jhipster 8761
```

> You can access the gateway application using port-forwarding as follows, and you will be able to access the application at `http://localhost:8080`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the gateway application using port-forwarding as follows, and you will be able to access the application at `http://localhost:8080`.
```

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/store -n jhipster 8080
```

You can also access the application via the load balancer exposed. Find the external IP of the `store` service by navigating to the service tab in KDash or by running the following:

```bash
kubectl get svc store -n jhipster
```

> Navigate to the Okta Admin Console and go to **Applications** > **Applications** from left-hand navigation. Find the application you created earlier with `okta apps create jhipster` and add the external IP from `kubectl get svc` command t the **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Okta Admin Console and go to **Applications** > **Applications** from left-hand navigation. Find the application you created earlier with `okta apps create jhipster` and add the external IP from `kubectl get svc` command to the **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs**. Make sure to use the same paths as the current `localhost` entries.
```

Now you should be able to visit the external IP of the `store` service and see the application, and you should be able to log in using your Okta credentials.

## Teardown the cluster with Terraform

Once you are done with the tutorial, you can delete the cluster and all the resources created using Terraform by running the following commands:

```bash
cd terraform

> # Takes a while. If this fails, then manually delete load balancers from AWS EC2 console and try again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The commands below might take a while to finish. If they fail, then manually delete the load balancers from AWS EC2 console and try again
```

communities: [devops, kubernetes, java]
description: "Deploy a cloud-native Java microservice stack on Amazon EKS using Terraform and Kubernetes."
tags: [kubernetes, jhipster, spring-boot, spring, java, aws, eks, react, terraform]
tweets:
  - "Deploy a #Java microservice stack on Amazon EKS using #Terraform and #Kubernetes"
  - "Deploy a cloud-native #Java microservice stack to Amazon EKS with #Terraform and #Kubernetes"
image: blog/jhipster-k8s-eks-terraform/cover-alt.jpg
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example
type: conversion
---

When it comes to infrastructure, public clouds are the most popular choice these days, especially Amazon Web Services (AWS). If you are in one of those lucky or unlucky (depending on how you see it) teams running microservices, then you need a way to orchestrate their deployments. When it comes to orchestrating microservices, Kubernetes is the de-facto choice. Most public cloud providers also provide managed Kubernetes as a service; for example, Google provides Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Microsoft provides Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), and Amazon provides Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS).

> This doesn't mean that deploying and managing microservices on the public cloud is easy; they come with their own challenges and pain. This is especially true for Amazon EKS, which in my opinion, is the hardest to use Kubernetes service but also one of the most flexible. This is because EKS is nothing but some clever orchestrations doing a complex dance on top of other AWS services like EC2, EBS, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This doesn't mean that deploying and managing microservices on the public cloud is easy; each service comes with its own challenges and pain. This is especially true for Amazon EKS, which, in my opinion, is the most difficult Kubernetes service to use, but also one of the most flexible. This is because EKS is nothing but some clever orchestrations doing a complex dance on top of other AWS services like EC2, EBS, etc.
```
easier read, more clarity by avoiding "they" here
I'll leave this last suggestion up to you but "nothing but some clever orchestrations.." sounds pretty negative, you could also say "consists of some clever orchestrations..." and it comes across as somewhat less of a put-down. Your call.

Author: updated

> If you want to run a microservice stack on EKS, you would need to spend some extra time and effort setting it up and managing it. This is where infrastructure as code (IaC) tools like [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) comes in handy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to run a microservice stack on EKS, you will need to spend some extra time and effort setting it up and managing it. This is where infrastructure as code (IaC) tools like [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) come in handy.
```
verb tense: would -> will 
use singular because the verb aligns with Terraform, not with tools (come -> comes)

- Set up OIDC authentication for the microservice stack using Okta
- Build and deploy the microservice stack to the cluster

**Prerequisites**

- [AWS account](https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup) with the [IAM permissions to create EKS clusters](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/security_iam_id-based-policy-examples.html)
- AWS CLI [installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html) and [configured](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html)
- [AWS IAM Authenticator](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/install-aws-iam-authenticator.html) installed
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) installed
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed and configured
- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads) installed
- [Java 11+](https://sdkman.io/usage) installed
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com/) installed
- [Optional] [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech/installation/) CLI installed
- [Optional] [KDash](https://github.com/kdash-rs/kdash)

{% include toc.md %}

## Why Terraform, why not CloudFormation?

> At this point, the first question that might pop up in your mind would be, "Why not use [CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/)?". It's a good question; after all, CloudFormation is built by AWS and hence sounds like an excellent solution to manage AWS resources. But anyone who has tried both CloudFormation and Terraform would tell you to forget that CloudFormation even exists. I think CloudFormation is far more complex to use and less developer-friendly than Terraform. You also need to write a lot more boilerplate with CloudFormation in YAML or JSON. Yikes! And most importantly, Terraform is far more powerful and flexible than CloudFormation and is cross-platform, which means you can take care of all your infrastructure management needs on any platform with one tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point, the first question that might pop up in your mind would be, "Why not use [CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/)?". It's a good question; after all, CloudFormation is built by AWS and hence sounds like an excellent solution to manage AWS resources. But anyone who has tried both CloudFormation and Terraform will probably tell you to forget that CloudFormation even exists. I think CloudFormation is far more complex and less developer-friendly than Terraform. You also need to write a lot more boilerplate with CloudFormation in YAML or JSON. Yikes! And most importantly, Terraform is far more powerful and flexible than CloudFormation. It's cross-platform, which means you can take care of all your infrastructure management needs on any platform with one tool.
```
When making an opinionated unverifiable generalized statement ("anyone who has tried both CloudFormation and Terraform..."), it's worth qualifying your position. Just add "probably" or "most likely" or anything that acknowledges you don't have proof.  Then you're covered ;-) 

Also, I turned the closing sentence into two sentences, to give each important statement more standalone impact.

# download the JDL file
jhipster download https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example/main/apps.jdl
# scaffold
jhipster jdl apps.jdl
```

**Option 2: Clone the sample repository**

```
git clone https://github.com/oktadev/okta-jhipster-k8s-eks-microservices-example
```

The JHipster scaffolded sample application has a gateway application, two microservices, and uses [JHipster Registry](https://www.jhipster.tech/jhipster-registry/) for service discovery and centralized configuration.

## Create an EKS cluster using Terraform

Now let us move on to the important part of the tutorial. Creating an EKS cluster in AWS is not as straightforward as in Google Cloud Platform (GCP). You need to also create a lot more resources for everything to work correctly without surprises. You will be using a bunch of Terraform providers to help us with this, and you will also use some prebuilt Terraform modules like [AWS VPC Terraform module](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-vpc) and [Amazon EKS Blueprints for Terraform](https://github.com/aws-ia/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints) to reduce the amount of boilerplate you need to write.

> This is the AWS resources and VPC architecture you will create:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the AWS resources and VPC architecture you will create:
```
plural verb

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-eks-terraform/tf-eks-arch.jpg alt:"AWS EKS and VPC architecture" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

### Build the Terraform configuration

> First, you need to make sure you use a specific version of the providers as different versions might use different attributes and features. Create a `versions.tf` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, make sure you use a specific version of the providers as different versions might use different attributes and features. Create a `versions.tf` file:
```

  cidr = local.vpc_cidr

  azs             = local.azs
  public_subnets  = [for k, v in local.azs : cidrsubnet(local.vpc_cidr, 8, k)]
  private_subnets = [for k, v in local.azs : cidrsubnet(local.vpc_cidr, 8, k + 10)]

  enable_nat_gateway   = true
  single_nat_gateway   = true
  enable_dns_hostnames = true

  # Manage so we can name
  manage_default_network_acl    = true
  default_network_acl_tags      = { Name = "${local.name}-default" }
  manage_default_route_table    = true
  default_route_table_tags      = { Name = "${local.name}-default" }
  manage_default_security_group = true
  default_security_group_tags   = { Name = "${local.name}-default" }

  public_subnet_tags = {
    "kubernetes.io/cluster/${local.name}" = "shared"
    "kubernetes.io/role/elb"              = 1
  }

  private_subnet_tags = {
    "kubernetes.io/cluster/${local.name}" = "shared"
    "kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb"     = 1
  }

  tags = local.tags
}
```

This will create:

- A new VPC, three private subnets, and three public subnets,
- Internet gateway and NAT gateway for the public subnets,
- and AWS routes for the gateways, public/private route tables, and route table associations.

> ### Build the EKS Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Build the EKS cluster
```

}

output "eks_managed_nodegroup_ids" {
  description = "EKS managed node group ids"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.managed_node_groups_id
}

output "eks_managed_nodegroup_arns" {
  description = "EKS managed node group arns"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.managed_node_group_arn
}

output "eks_managed_nodegroup_role_name" {
  description = "EKS managed node group role name"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.managed_node_group_iam_role_names
}

output "eks_managed_nodegroup_status" {
  description = "EKS managed node group status"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.managed_node_groups_status
}

output "configure_kubectl" {
  description = "Configure kubectl: make sure you're logged in with the correct AWS profile and run the following command to update your kubeconfig"
  value       = module.eks_blueprints.configure_kubectl
}
```

### Provision the cluster

Our Terraform definitions are ready. Now you can provision the cluster. First, initialize Terraform workspace and plan the changes:

```bash
# download modules and providers. Initialize state.
terraform init
# see a preview of what will be done
terraform plan
```

> Review the plan and make sure everything is correct. Ensure you have configured your AWS CLI and IAM Authenticator to use the correct AWS account. If not, run and following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review the plan and make sure everything is correct. Ensure you have configured your AWS CLI and IAM Authenticator to use the correct AWS account. If not, run the following:
```
Looks like a typo, I took a guess.

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-eks-terraform/eks-cluster.png alt:"EKS cluster in KDash" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

## Set up OIDC authentication using Okta

You can proceed to deploy the sample application. You could skip this step if you used a sample that does not use Okta or OIDC for authentication.

First, navigate to the **store** application folder.

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}

> **Note**: Make sure to add the newly created `.okta.env` file to your `.gitignore` file so that you don't accidentally expose your credentials to the public.

Update `kubernetes/registry-k8s/application-configmap.yml` with the OIDC configuration from the `.okta.env` file. The Spring Cloud Config server reads from this file and shares the values with the gateway and microservices.

```yaml
data:
  application.yml: |-
    ...
    spring:
      security:
        oauth2:
          client:
            provider:
              oidc:
                issuer-uri: https://<your-okta-domain>/oauth2/default
            registration:
              oidc:
                client-id: <client-id>
                client-secret: <client-secret>
```

> Next, configure the JHipster Registry to use OIDC for authentication. Modify `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` to enable the `oauth2` profile, which is pre-configured in the JHipster Registry application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, configure the JHipster Registry to use OIDC for authentication. Modify `kubernetes/registry-k8s/jhipster-registry.yml` to enable the `oauth2` profile, which is preconfigured in the JHipster Registry application.
```
one word

Author: Grammarly keeps suggesting me to use a hyphenated version. :P I'll go with your suggestion ofcourse.

```yaml
- name: SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
  value: prod,k8s,oauth2
```

The application is now ready.

### Secure secrets

> If you have noticed, you are setting secrets in plain text on the `application-configmap.yml` file, which is not ideal and is not a best practice for security. For the specific JHipster application, you can use the encrypt functionality provided by the JHipster Registry to encrypt the secrets. See [Encrypt Your Secrets with Spring Cloud Config](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster#encrypt-your-secrets-with-spring-cloud-config) to learn how to do this. But that would also rely on a base64 encoded encryption key added as a Kubernetes Secret, which still can be decoded. The best way to do this would be using [AWS Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/), an external service like [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault), or with [Sealed Secrets](https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets). To learn more about these methods see [Encrypt Your Kubernetes Secrets](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster#encrypt-your-kubernetes-secrets).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have noticed, you are setting secrets in plain text on the `application-configmap.yml` file, which is not ideal and is not a best practice for security. For the specific JHipster application, you can use the encrypt functionality provided by the JHipster Registry to encrypt the secrets. See [Encrypt Your Secrets with Spring Cloud Config](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster#encrypt-your-secrets-with-spring-cloud-config) to learn how to do this. But that would also rely on a base64 encoded encryption key added as a Kubernetes Secret, which still can be decoded. The best way to do this would be to use [AWS Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/), an external service like [HashiCorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/vault), or [Sealed Secrets](https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets). To learn more about these methods see [Encrypt Your Kubernetes Secrets](/blog/2021/06/01/kubernetes-spring-boot-jhipster#encrypt-your-kubernetes-secrets).
```

## Deploy the microservice stack

You are ready to deploy to our shiny new EKS cluster, but first, you need to build and push the Docker images to a container registry. You can use [Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) or any other container registry.

### Build the Docker images

You need to build Docker images for each app. This is specific to the JHipster application used in this tutorial. Navigate to each app folder (**store**, **invoice**, **product**) and run the following command:

```bash
./gradlew bootJar -Pprod jib -Djib.to.image=<docker-repo-uri-or-name>/<image-name>
```

Image names should be `store`, `invoice`, and `product`.

### Deploy the applications to EKS

> You can start the deployment using the handy script provided by JHipster. You could also manually apply deployments using `kubectl apply -f <file>` commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start the deployment using the handy script provided by JHipster. You could also manually apply deployments using `kubectl apply -f <file>` commands.
```
You have a series of sentences that start w/"you can" 
Readability best practice is to vary the opening words in sentences to keep the reader engaged

```bash
cd kubernetes
./kubectl-apply.sh -f
```

{% img blog/jhipster-k8s-eks-terraform/jhi-pods.png alt:"EKS cluster in KDash" width:"900" %}{: .center-image }

You can also run the following command to see the status of the deployments:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n jhipster
```

> You can view the registry using port-forwarding as follows, and you will be able to access the application at `http://localhost:8761`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
View the registry using port-forwarding as follows, and you will be able to access the application at `http://localhost:8761`.
```

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/jhipster-registry -n jhipster 8761
```

You can access the gateway application using port-forwarding as follows, and you will be able to access the application at `http://localhost:8080`.

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/store -n jhipster 8080
```

> You can also access the application via the load balancer exposed. Find the external IP of the `store` service by navigating to the service tab in KDash or by running the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or, you can access the application via the load balancer exposed. Find the external IP of the `store` service by navigating to the service tab in KDash or by running the following:
```

```bash
kubectl get svc store -n jhipster
```

Navigate to the Okta Admin Console and go to **Applications** > **Applications** from left-hand navigation. Find the application you created earlier with `okta apps create jhipster` and add the external IP from `kubectl get svc` command to the **Sign-in redirect URIs** and **Sign-out redirect URIs**. Make sure to use the same paths as the current `localhost` entries.

Now you should be able to visit the external IP of the `store` service on port 8080 and see the application, and you should be able to log in using your Okta credentials.

> ## Teardown the cluster with Terraform

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Tear down the cluster with Terraform
```

tear down as verb is two words
